New: Sourcemap Page (#3293)
facebook/react-native-website: docs/sourcemaps.md

---
id: sourcemaps
title: Source Maps
---

> Source maps help map a minified file back to an un-packaged state. This is common when investigating issues from release builds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Source maps allows to map a transformed file back to the original source file. The main purpose of source maps is to aid debugging and help investigating issues from release builds.
```

Rephrase suggestion.

> This helps if you have a stacktrace like

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Without the source maps, when running into an error in the release build you will see a stacktrace like:
```

Another one.

```text
TypeError: Cannot read property 'data' of undefined
  at anonymous(app:///index.android.bundle:1:4277021)
  at call(native)
  at p(app:///index.android.bundle:1:227785)
```

> The power of source maps allow tracing that line and column number back to the original source stacktrace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With source maps generated, a stacktrace will include path, file name, line and column numbers of the original source file:
```

And one more. 😉

Reviewer: Agree, "column" was in the original sentence before I have posted suggestion, thought about removing it, but I left it at the end, so yeah, let's drop it.

Author: sounds good. Take a look now and let me know what you think.

Reviewer: LGTM, thank you for the quick review updates! 🙏

```text
TypeError: Cannot read property 'data' of undefined
  at anonymous(src/modules/notifications/Permission.js:15:requestNotificationPermission)
  at call(native)
  at p(node_modules/regenerator-runtime/runtime.js:64:Generator)
```

This allows to triage release issues given a more accurate stacktrace.

> Follow the instructions below to get started with source maps:
> 
> 1. [Enable source maps on Android](sourcemaps.md#enable-source-maps-on-android)
> 2. [Enable source maps on iOS](sourcemaps.md#enable-source-maps-on-ios)
> 3. [Manual Symbolication](sourcemaps.md#manual-symbolication)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the instructions below to get started with source maps.
```

Since we have ToC on the right side, I think we don't need to list the sections in content.

## Enable source maps on Android

### Hermes

:::info
Source maps are built in Release mode by default. However, if `hermesFlagsRelease` is set - source maps will have to be enabled.
:::

If so, ensure the following is set in your app's `android/app/build.gradle` file.

```groovy
project.ext.react = [
    enableHermes: true,
    hermesFlagsRelease: ["-O", "-output-source-map"], // plus whichever flag was required to set this away from default
]
```

If done correctly - you may see the output location of the source map during Metro build output.

```text
Writing bundle output to:, android/app/build/generated/assets/react/release/index.android.bundle
Writing sourcemap output to:, android/app/build/intermediates/sourcemaps/react/release/index.android.bundle.packager.map
```

Development builds do not produce a bundle and thus already have symbols, but if the development build is bundled you may use `hermesFlagsDebug` like above to enable source maps.

## Enable source maps on iOS

> Source maps are built in Release mode by default. However, you might want to redirect the location of the source map for easier use.
> 
> If so, within Xcode head to the build phrase - "Bundle React Native code and images"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Source maps are disabled by default. To enable them one has to define `SOURCEMAP_FILE` environment variable.

In order to do so, within Xcode head to the build phase - "Bundle React Native code and images"
```

> If so, within Xcode head to the build phrase - "Bundle React Native code and images"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If so, within Xcode head to the build phrase - "Bundle React Native code and images".
```

Missing period.

3. [Manual Symbolication](sourcemaps.md#manual-symbolication)

## Enable source maps on Android

### Hermes

:::info
Source maps are built in Release mode by default. However, if `hermesFlagsRelease` is set - source maps will have to be enabled.
:::

If so, ensure the following is set in your app's `android/app/build.gradle` file.

```groovy
project.ext.react = [
    enableHermes: true,
    hermesFlagsRelease: ["-O", "-output-source-map"], // plus whichever flag was required to set this away from default
]
```

If done correctly - you may see the output location of the source map during Metro build output.

```text
Writing bundle output to:, android/app/build/generated/assets/react/release/index.android.bundle
Writing sourcemap output to:, android/app/build/intermediates/sourcemaps/react/release/index.android.bundle.packager.map
```

Development builds do not produce a bundle and thus already have symbols, but if the development build is bundled - you may enable source maps like:

Editing `android/app/build.gradle` file with:

```groovy
project.ext.react = [
  bundleInDebug: true,
  hermesFlagsDebug: ["-O", "-output-source-map"],
]

> ```

Reviewer 3: I don't think we need to specify this. Just mention that you can use `hermesFlagsDebug` if needed similarly to `hermesFlagsRelease`

Author: thanks - adjusted and dropped that section for just hinting at `hermesFlagsDebug`

> ## Enable source maps on iOS

Reviewer 3: @dmytrorykun can you cross check this section?

Author: Friendly ping @dmytrorykun if you've had time to peek this :)

Reviewer 2: Sorry, somehow missed the first notification. Yeah, I'll check that!
